The Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/) pertains
to all the .tex code in this repository. TL;DR it means you can't
create a commercial or derivitive work from my thesis. I probably
wouldn't have any problem with you doing that, honestly, but without
asking me first you can't do that.

======================================================================

This license (MIT/Expat) pertains to everything in this repository
that ISN'T a .tex file. (It applies to random scripts, which are
mostly abominations anyway, and to all the SML or SLS code.)

======================================================================

Copyright (c) 2012 Robert J. Simmons

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


